https://aws.amazon.com/elasticsearch-service/what-is-elasticsearch/

About
--------

Elasticsearch is an open-source, RESTful, distributed search and
analytics engine built on Apache Lucene.  First released in 2010, it
is commonly used for log analytics, full-text search, and operational
intelligence use cases.

When coupled with **Kibana**, a visualization tool, Elasticsearch can be
used to provide near-real time analytics using large volumes of log
data. Elasticsearch is also popular because of its easy-to-use search
APIs which allow you to easily add powerful search capabilities to
your applications.


How it works
--------------

You can send new data, called **documents**, to Elasticsearch using the
API or ingestion tools such as Logstash and Amazon Kinesis
Firehose. Elasticsearch automatically stores the original document and
adds a searchable reference to the document in the cluster’s
index. You can then search and retrieve the document using the
Elasticsearch API. You can also use Kibana, an open-source analytics
and visualization tool, to search, analyze, and dashboard your data.


Use cases
------------

**Log Analytics** - Analyze un-structured and semi-structured logs
generated by websites, mobile devices, servers, sensors, and more for
a wide variety of applications such as digital marketing, application
monitoring, fraud detection, ad tech, gaming, and IoT. Capture,
pre-process, and load log data into Elasticsearch using Logstash,
Amazon Kinesis Firehose, or Amazon CloudWatch Logs. You can then
search, explore, and visualize the data using Kibana and the
Elasticsearch query DSL to gain valuable insights about your users and
applications.

**Full Text Search** - Provide your customers with a rich search and
navigation experience. Elasticsearch supports faceting, which allows
your customers to narrow their search results by value ranges for
fields like price, product characteristics, and brands; ability to
create advanced search criteria filters; search-as-you-type
suggesters; and near real-time index updates.

**Distributed Document Store** - Power your application with an easy
to use JSON document-oriented storage platform. Elasticsearch provides
a simple REST API, fast performance, powerful search capabilities, so
you can build highly performant applications that can store and
retrieve billions of documents.

**Real-time Application Monitoring** - Capture
activity logs across your customer-facing applications and
websites. Use Logstash to push these logs to your Elasticsearch
cluster. Elasticsearch indexes the data and makes it available for
analysis in near real-time (less than one second). You can then use
Kibana to visualize the data and perform operational analyses like
identifying outages and problems. With Elasticsearch’s geospatial
analysis, you can identify the geographical region where the problem
is occurring. Troubleshooting teams can then search the index and
perform statistical aggregations to identify root cause and fix
issues.
